Okay, so we are gonna go back
to our same code pen here
where we're looking at our
crazy unordered lists.
And now I wanna move on to
the parent child selectors.
So an example of this, let us say
that I want to select the li's here,
let's say this li on line 11 and
maybe the one here on line 12,
but I don't wanna select all of
the ones inside of the ordered list.
I just wanna select the li's that are or
direct children of that ul
with a class of nested.
How might we go about doing that?
Well, this is where, Okay,
so this would be
the parent-child selector.
And this would be a case,
where we might do something like that.
So we could say .nested, right?
And then we use a > symbol and
then say li.
So in other words, the children of nested.
Now sometimes you also see it written
this way by the way, ul.nested.
What does that means when
it's all one word like that?
>> ul elements with the nested class,
>> Right, ul with the nested class.
What if I did it this way?
What would that mean?
>> Starting with ul elements, they're
nested children direct list element and
list item children to that.
>> Right, close,
you've read it from left to right there,
we wanna read them from right to left.
So anybody else wanna take
another crack at that there
are list items that our
children of a class of nested,
which is descended from a ul.
Okay, so remember there could be a great
big huge gap between that ul and
the nested, right?
Okay, but
if we put them together with no space,
then it is a ul with
the class of nested together.
Okay, so here, let's say border: 2px
dotted orange, so there they are.
Doesn't display very well.
Let me change that color, black.
There we go.
So now you see, here's the thing,
another thing, and
more things are the ones
that are selected.
The two inside there though number points
number one and two, they still have that
blue border on them.selected,
those are not selected, okay?
So that is the purpose of
a parent child selector,
we wanna select just
the immediate children.
Where else do we see this type of pattern
where we have a parent and then we have
its immediate children have certain
properties associated with it, anybody?
That parent we just say
it can do one thing and
its children can do something else.
Flexbox and grid right, Flexbox and
grid same kinda relationship.
We just say display flexbox on the parent
its children get very specific properties.
Make sense?
Same thing with display grid,
its children get very specific property.
So here's how we would write that out,
this way.
Okay, let's talk about siblings.
I don't really wanna talk about my
brothers, but let's talk about siblings.
So let's just continue on with
that ul with a class of nested.
We have some li's that are here, right?
And we can select those particular
li's In a very interesting way.
So what I'm going to do,
is I'm going to just say ul.nested and
then I'm going to say li~li.
And I am going to set this to be,
let's put
some padding on him and
let's make them green.
So when I put this on,
notice that it's going to select
the same things that we had.
Well, it'll actually select,
It's gonna select the same li's.
Here's a thing, here's another thing,
and here's more things, but
this time we're selecting
the siblings here, okay?
So we'll close call them 1, 2, and 3.
When I say that the color is green,
how many of these li's
are going to turn green?
One, how many say one?
One li's turns green, how many say two,
two li's turned green?
How many say three?
Three li's turn green,
nobody has any clue.
All right, so we'll just do it.
Color green padding 1rem.
Okay, so what's going on here?
So we got the ul.nested
li we did that before, so
we know that those are affected
from that part of the selector.
li tilde li,
this is the general sibling selector.
So we're saying an li with
a sibling of an li and
it could be anywhere there in the list.
So here we have three of these siblings.
And we've only selected though,
the last two.
Why isn't the first one selected?
Because, The first one does not have
a sibling that comes before it.
So remember when you write
this style of selector here,
you have to have an li and the one that
said the end is the one that's affected.
So, here we have the second sibling.
Here's an li with a sibling of an li,
right?
Oops, or an li with a sibling of an li.
This one down here also has
a sibling of an li, all right?
This one has a sibling, this one has
siblings, but not that first one.
So that's what that means.
Yes.
>> Isn't that siblings are defined
by what comes after it?
I don't quite understand why that
first li isn't being selected.
>> So this is for
any li with a sibling of an li.
So here we would have to work our way up
where we're working our way up the HTML.
This li doesn't have an li
that comes before it.
>> Okay, and so-
>> And that's why it's not selected.
>> We would say that, that first li does
not have a sibling, is that accurate
>> It has siblings,
it's just doesn't have
one that comes before it.
>> Okay, and
that's what the selector is saying.
>> That's what the selector is saying
when that comes before it, right?
Weird, but true.
If we looked at our ol here,
Neither of those actually got selected.
Does that even apply?
Let's see.
Ul nest, well, this doesn't apply.
That's not true that ul
is not a child of the ol.
So here we have only one
li that is selected.
So ul nested to the ol, that's not
a direct relationship there, remember,
there's an li in between.
So we could say that, That's legal.
Yep, just have to follow the patterns
that are here in the HTML.
That is what we're looking at,
what are the patterns, okay?
Likewise, there's also a plus sign.
This is gonna be harder to really
differentiate between the general sibling
selector and this next one which
is the adjacent sibling selector,
because they're gonna look like
they select the same things here.
The adjacent sibling selector
means that it is directly next to,
these two siblings are next to each other.
So it is, for example,
the second and the third child,
they are next to each other they would
be selected in this particular case.
The general sibling selector
if we had the second child and
the tenth child they're siblings, even
though there are many siblings in between.
So the tilde would select those two,
whereas the plus only selects the two that
are right immediately next to each other.
That is the difference
between those two selectors.
Yes.
>> So it's not the element that comes
before it that is considered a sibling.
>> No, because we have to start with an li
sort of think of it as like an anchor, and
then we want the one that
comes immediately after.
So here the second gets selected,
the second has one,
maybe it has one after it,
those two would get selected.
The third one has one immediately
after it, those two gets selected.
So sometimes you'll see a whole
bunch of those selected, but
just it's never the first one because
it doesn't follow the same pattern.